---
layout: post
title: "What is this, a new look?"
description: "A recent ruling from a German Court in Munich, required a website owner to pay &#128;100 for using embedded fonts."
date: 2022-12-11
category: Site Development
thumbnail: "/assets/images/ma-jekyll_theme.png"
---

If you look back through my post history, you'll notice approximately 10 months since my previous post. I don't know about you, but I always have such great intentions for my personal site. In my head I have grand visions of sharing technical insights, how-tos, projects, and sometimes my opinions as these grand long-form posts. However, as reality sets in I found myself with little time left to put together a long form posts. 

## Future Posts
In an effort to make more regular posts, I am reducing the pressure on myself. Not everything needs to be a traditional long-form post. I'm going to make an attempt to post at least once per week and most of these "regular" posts will simply be short brain dumps, recapping some of the topics of my week (generally technology centric). I still want to complete the occassional long-form post and am going to set an initial goal of four throughout the year.  These long-form posts will most likely be documenting some of my homelab projects in detail.

## 

## What is the Google Font Library
The Google Font Library is a collection of online fonts that can be used when publishing a website. Since the font library is hosted online, this allows a website to use fonts from the online library and ensure they are presented to the visitor properly, even if the visitor doesn't have the particular font on their local computer. The font is retrieved from the online library and the website is viewed by the visitor just as it was intended when designed. This can be extra important to a major company or entity who may have a brand image to present and wants to ensure it represented in a consistant way for all visitors.

Google Font Library isn't the only service out there, others such as [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) and [Adobe Fonts](https://fonts.adobe.com/) are popular options. Outside of the obvious cosmetic benefits of leveraging such services, these services are hosted on incredibly powerful distributed networks, provided in many cases for free. It could easily be argued that these services (among others) have done much to build the modern web we are familiar with and shaped the way it looks. Access to these tools and services has given web developers and everyday personal website owners the ability to create eye catching designs, available to everyone.

## The Suggestions
As a response to the court's ruling, I saw numerous posts suggesting appropriate fixes. These included either building your website to rely soley only the client's built-in fonts or hosting fonts locally. The first solution I strike immediately, for any company wishing to enforce their brand identity, relying on clients to have your suggested fonts and design elements on their local computer isn't an option.  The second option is for web developers to build websites that host these resources locally, thus not redirecting client traffic to a 3rd party. For professionally developed and managed websites, this is a straight forward solution. Full disclosure, this is the option I've selected on this website for compliance sake.

## The Problem
The internet is filled with countless personal websites, blogs, dancing penguins and other websites that are not created by professionals. That is what makes the internet such a great place, it has given everyone the opportunity to make their own digital footprint. These people are not and can not be expected to understand the complex web of policies defined by the GDPR.  The GDPR is currently composed of 14 "key issues" sorted by topic/keyword which are explained in legalize in 11 chapters and 99 articles. Even for a professional, understanding this tapistry of changing regulations is a full time job and one only a legal team can ultimately understand. 

I fear in an effort to "protect" ourselves we are ultimately restricting our own access to resources and opinions. As more court rulings fine the owners of websites, the publishers of personal websites and blogs will begin to disapear out of fear of compliance. They may do this by restricting access to geographic regions with friendlier regulations or not publishing at all. In an effort to regulate privacy are we actually supressing free thinking?